# 2009 - 2020 
219 Huntingdon Rd <br>
Yichuan Shi <br> March 2020


## I am a mapmaker
note: maps have a special place in my heart; GIS and remote sensing specialist by training

### Why I got hired
note: Interned WCMC Global Island Database with Corinna and Simon; Was not good enough I suppose, as I didn't get a job with WCMC, but started volunteering for species programme with IUCN. ATT they had a challenge of creating isotropic hexagonal grids globally at scales for analysing richness of vertebrates species. With no prospect of finding a job in the UK, I had to return to China amidst the financial crisis 2008-2009 but later got a phone call from IUCN asking if I'd be interested in a job - yeah, job interviews at that time was easy - I probably still would not get a job now with the competition, but I sneaked in! I guess I did two things right: 1)I outsourced/consulted the work to a university friend for advice manipulating text coordinates generated by the programme to remove vertices that are around 180 longitude 2) I fixed the bug for counting species richness, especially binning polygons based on a grid of some sort, written in VBA, now extinct language.

### Teach computers
note: I enjoyed immensely was working with computers, which I still do. This is perhaps the closest thing relating to doing magic. But it was pretty hard as I had little idea how to do it - I had to teach myself while doing lots of manual labour, which i later discovered was what the IUCN job was about. There was a constant struggle why things did not work, or why they worked when they do, but resourceful, young, didn't have a girl friend or family. Automating things or to the extent possible, delegating work to computers and making my life easier what fundamentally what gave me strength to work. What I learned was that 1) there is no point in doing the same thing over and over again - this is a waste of creative power and mental energy 2) there are many ways of skinning a cat and there is a point in trying them out even at times doing things in a different way may mean spending more time 3) doing deep and extra work may not sound a fair trade but it eventually pays off. 

### All maps are wrong!
note: it is true! All maps are abstractions of the real world, as such they cannot, by definition, be 100% true, otherwise there is no point in making maps as we would be overwhelmed by unnecessary details. It is necessary to sacrifice details or noises to focus on important things of interest to us. BUT the things of interest are inherently biased even though we do not notice them. Further more, as human beings our perceptive capability is rather limited in that colours, sizes (or perception of ), shapes all influence our perception and ultimately judgment and actions. Maps are deceiving but some maps are more useful than others!

### Tricky maths
note: I'm looking forward to my exit interview, and I remember HR said something about I petrify interns because once I gave interview questions about Fibonacci series - I think that's an interesting but perhaps less forgiving characterisation of my reputation. No, just to clarify, I don't petrify interns. There is some truth in it that I work a lot with numbers but I hate them, perhaps I'm not sufficiently good at them. The point is that spatial analyses are never easy, (okay they are always conceptually simple, but never easy to crack on). The point is the importance work is often understated.

### When it goes wrong
note: i guess it's not when but it is about how often - in fact it goes wrong all the time. and I think for those of you who work with data on a regular basis can empathise how much time we spend investigating, fixing, re-running. How much time, headaches and lost opportunity over these. Computers do not perform what you think it'd do, it crashes, or a logical error on methodology. What I've learned is to look at the data - most likely the source of frustration - it is formatted well, it is too chunky for computers to chew, is there another way to go about the same process using a different tool. If it's spatial, asking gurus in the GIS hub usually helps


## World Heritage
note: (bored the world into peace) it's better squabbling over insignifcant details and be boring rather than. So it's a good sign). Evaluation, monitoring and upstream research and capacity building. Impactful work, science policy interface, in preserving most outstanding protected areas

### Crown jewels

### Balance

### Inconvenient science


## The Web

### a different experience

### capacity gap


## WDPA
World Database on Protected Areas

### flagship knowledge product

### bottleneck

### above and beyond


## IBAT
Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool

### novel mechanism
note: cost recovery and project impact

### 